# Easy Lyrics Analysis

Please read this before you start:

1. You have to get the 'Client Access Token' from Genius before starting with this project. Now, for this visit: https://genius.com/api-clients. If you have a Genius account simply log in or else sign up. You will be redirected to the API Clients web page. Fill in the App Name and give App website URL (you can give your github profile's link as your App Website URL). Leave the rest of the deatils as they are not necesasary. 
#### Keep in mind that you need to generate Client Access Token. So click on "Generate Client Access Token". We do not need Client ID or Secret. 

2. First implement the ScrapeLyrics.py and then implement LyricsTextAnalysis.py.

3. I have given the CSV file that I have generated by implementing the ScrapeLyrics.py in this repository titled: 'lyricsrealcoleworld.csv'. So, if you want you can just download the CSV file and perform Text Analysis and Sentiment Analysis. 

4. You can give multpile artists' names. I have only taken J. Cole but you can give as many artists as you want. In addition, you can also have any number of songs you want. I have given the max_songs = 10. You can give as many as you want. 

5. If you get an error in nltk corpus stopwords error, something along the lines of: 

`---------------------------------------------------------------------------
LookupError                               Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-6-ff9cd17f22b2> in <module>()
----> 1 stopwords.words('english')`

Then, you must enter the following in your terminal:

`>>> import nltk`

`>>> nltk.download()`

In the GUI window that popped, simply press the 'Download' button to download all.

If you get the following error after clicking 'Download' in the GUI Window that popped: "SSL: Certificate verify failed". 
Then go to your Applications, click on the Python 3.8 (0r 3.6) file and then click on 'Install Certificates.command' file.
Or type the following inside your terminal `bash /Applications/Python 3.6/Install Certificates.command`

